index.mdx, before:

---
title: Andi Search API
description: Add web search to your applications with structured, accurate results from billions of indexed pages.
---

The Andi Search API gives your applications access to web search results scored for accuracy and relevance, drawn from an index of billions of pages. Responses are structured for direct use in AI agents, RAG pipelines, and search interfaces — with 87% accuracy in independent benchmarks.

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="Quickstart" icon="rocket" href="/getting-started/quickstart">
    Make your first API call in minutes.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Fast search" icon="bolt" href="/search/fast-search">
    Default mode — results in ~1 second.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Deep search" icon="microscope" href="/search/deep-search">
    Enhanced analysis with more sources.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Base URL

```text
https://search-api.andisearch.com
```

## Authentication

All requests require an API key passed in the `x-api-key` header. Get your key from the [API Console](https://console.andiai.com).

```bash
curl "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search?q=hello+world" \
  -H "x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY"
```

## What you can build

- **AI agents** that retrieve current information from the web
- **RAG applications** with real-time search grounding
- **Research tools** that gather and synthesize web sources
- **Search features** embedded in your own products

Commit message:

Add SEO/GEO optimization: metatags, JSON-LD, keywords, OG image, robots.txt
Site name updated to "Andi AI Search API Docs" for brand/product signals
in title tags. Added seo.metatags in docs.json for og:image, og:site_name,
twitter:site. Created branded OG background image (1200x630 dark starfield).
Added keywords arrays to all 13 MDX pages. Optimized descriptions on index,
authentication, and filtering pages. Landing page now uses "Andi AI" entity
name and evergreen accuracy claim. Added noindex to content-retrieval stub.
Organization JSON-LD via custom script links into the Andi entity graph.
Custom robots.txt explicitly allows AI crawlers (GPTBot, ClaudeBot,
PerplexityBot). SEO guidance added to README.

index.mdx, after:

---
title: Andi Search API
description: Web search API for AI agents, RAG pipelines, and search applications. Structured, accurate results from a large-scale web index.
keywords:
  - web search API
  - AI search API
  - search API for AI agents
  - RAG search API
  - Andi AI
  - accurate web search
---

The Andi AI Search API gives your applications access to web search results scored for accuracy and relevance, drawn from a large-scale index. Responses are structured for direct use in AI agents, RAG pipelines, and search interfaces — ranked #1 for accuracy in independent benchmarks.

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="Quickstart" icon="rocket" href="/getting-started/quickstart">
    Make your first API call in minutes.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Fast search" icon="bolt" href="/search/fast-search">
    Default mode — results in ~1 second.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Deep search" icon="microscope" href="/search/deep-search">
    Enhanced analysis with more sources.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Base URL

```text
https://search-api.andisearch.com
```

## Authentication

All requests require an API key passed in the `x-api-key` header. Get your key from the [API Console](https://console.andiai.com).

```bash
curl "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search?q=hello+world" \
  -H "x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY"
```

## What you can build

- **AI agents** that retrieve current information from the web
- **RAG applications** with real-time search grounding
- **Research tools** that gather and synthesize web sources
- **Search features** embedded in your own products
