getting-started/authentication.mdx, before:

---
title: Authentication
description: How to authenticate with the Andi Search API using API keys.
---

Every request to the Andi Search API must include an API key in the `x-api-key` header.

<Snippet file="auth-header.mdx" />

## Getting an API key

1. Sign in to the [API Console](https://console.andiai.com)
2. Go to **API Keys**
3. Click **Create Key**
4. Copy the key — it's only shown once

## Managing keys

The API Console lets you:

- **Create** multiple keys for different applications or environments
- **Rename** keys to identify their purpose
- **Enable/disable** keys without deleting them
- **Revoke** keys that are no longer needed

Each key tracks its own usage. You can monitor request counts and credit consumption per key in the console.

## Security practices

<Warning>
Treat API keys like passwords. Never commit them to version control or expose them in client-side code.
</Warning>

- Store keys in environment variables or a secrets manager
- Use separate keys for development and production
- Rotate keys periodically
- Revoke keys immediately if compromised
- Restrict key access to team members who need it

```bash
# Store your key in an environment variable
export ANDI_API_KEY="your-api-key"

# Reference it in requests
curl "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search?q=test" \
  -H "x-api-key: $ANDI_API_KEY"
```

Commit message:

Add SEO/GEO optimization: metatags, JSON-LD, keywords, OG image, robots.txt
Site name updated to "Andi AI Search API Docs" for brand/product signals
in title tags. Added seo.metatags in docs.json for og:image, og:site_name,
twitter:site. Created branded OG background image (1200x630 dark starfield).
Added keywords arrays to all 13 MDX pages. Optimized descriptions on index,
authentication, and filtering pages. Landing page now uses "Andi AI" entity
name and evergreen accuracy claim. Added noindex to content-retrieval stub.
Organization JSON-LD via custom script links into the Andi entity graph.
Custom robots.txt explicitly allows AI crawlers (GPTBot, ClaudeBot,
PerplexityBot). SEO guidance added to README.

getting-started/authentication.mdx, after:

---
title: Authentication
description: Authenticate with the Andi Search API using API keys in the x-api-key header.
keywords:
  - API key authentication
  - x-api-key header
  - API key management
---

Every request to the Andi Search API must include an API key in the `x-api-key` header.

<Snippet file="auth-header.mdx" />

## Getting an API key

1. Sign in to the [API Console](https://console.andiai.com)
2. Go to **API Keys**
3. Click **Create Key**
4. Copy the key — it's only shown once

## Managing keys

The API Console lets you:

- **Create** multiple keys for different applications or environments
- **Rename** keys to identify their purpose
- **Enable/disable** keys without deleting them
- **Revoke** keys that are no longer needed

Each key tracks its own usage. You can monitor request counts and credit consumption per key in the console.

## Security practices

<Warning>
Treat API keys like passwords. Never commit them to version control or expose them in client-side code.
</Warning>

- Store keys in environment variables or a secrets manager
- Use separate keys for development and production
- Rotate keys periodically
- Revoke keys immediately if compromised
- Restrict key access to team members who need it

```bash
# Store your key in an environment variable
export ANDI_API_KEY="your-api-key"

# Reference it in requests
curl "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search?q=test" \
  -H "x-api-key: $ANDI_API_KEY"
```
