resources/rate-limits.mdx, before:

---
title: Rate limits
description: Rate limit configuration and handling for the Andi Search API.
---

Rate limits control how many requests an API key can make within a time window. They protect the service and ensure fair usage across all consumers.

## Default limits

Rate limits are configurable per API key through the [API Console](https://console.andiai.com). The default limit is set when you create a key and can be adjusted based on your needs.

<Info>
Contact [support](mailto:hello+api@andiai.com) if you need higher rate limits than what's available in the console.
</Info>

## Rate limit headers

Responses include headers that show your current rate limit status:

| Header | Description |
|---|---|
| `X-RateLimit-Limit` | Maximum requests allowed in the current window |
| `X-RateLimit-Remaining` | Requests remaining in the current window |
| `X-RateLimit-Reset` | Unix timestamp when the window resets |
| `Retry-After` | Seconds to wait before retrying (only on `429` responses) |

## Handling 429 responses

When you exceed your rate limit, the API returns a `429` status code:

```json
{
  "error": "Rate limit exceeded. Please retry after the period indicated in the Retry-After header."
}
```

Use the `Retry-After` header to determine when to retry:

```python
import time
import requests

response = requests.get(
    "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search",
    params={"q": "test"},
    headers={"x-api-key": "YOUR_API_KEY"}
)

if response.status_code == 429:
    retry_after = int(response.headers.get("Retry-After", 60))
    time.sleep(retry_after)
    # Retry the request
```

## Monitoring usage

Track your request volume and credit consumption in the [API Console](https://console.andiai.com). Per-key usage data helps you identify which applications or environments are consuming the most requests.

Commit message:

Enhance API documentation with new features and clarifications
- Updated filtering.mdx to include additional date range options: `24h`, `7d`, `30d`, `90d`, `1y`.
- Revised query-operators.mdx to add aliases for `filetype:` and `intext:` operators, and introduced a new `lang:` operator for language filtering.
- Expanded query-parameters.mdx to support multi-query searches and clarified intent values with examples.
- Modified response-format.mdx to reflect changes in response structure, including new fields and types.
- Adjusted quickstart.mdx examples to use updated response fields (`link` instead of `url`).
- Improved error-handling.mdx to provide clearer error response formats and status codes.
- Clarified rate-limits.mdx to specify that limits are configured per API key and updated handling of `429` responses.
- Enhanced deep-search.mdx and fast-search.mdx examples to align with new response structures and metrics.
- Added CONTRIBUTING.md to guide users on how to contribute to the documentation.

resources/rate-limits.mdx, after:

---
title: Rate limits
description: Rate limit configuration and handling for the Andi Search API.
---

Rate limits control how many requests an API key can make within a time window. They protect the service and ensure fair usage across all consumers.

## Default limits

Rate limits are configured per API key through the [API Console](https://console.andiai.com). Limits use a per-second sliding window. The default limit is set when you create a key and can be adjusted based on your needs.

<Info>
Contact [support](mailto:hello+api@andiai.com) if you need higher rate limits than what's available in the console.
</Info>

## Rate limit headers

When a rate limit is exceeded, the API returns a `429` status code with a `Retry-After` header:

| Header | Description |
|---|---|
| `Retry-After` | Seconds to wait before retrying (set to `1` on `429` responses) |

## Handling 429 responses

When you exceed your rate limit, the API returns a `429` status code:

```json
{
  "error": "Too Many Requests",
  "message": "Rate limit of N requests per second exceeded"
}
```

Use the `Retry-After` header to determine when to retry:

```python
import time
import requests

response = requests.get(
    "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search",
    params={"q": "test"},
    headers={"x-api-key": "YOUR_API_KEY"}
)

if response.status_code == 429:
    retry_after = int(response.headers.get("Retry-After", 1))
    time.sleep(retry_after)
    # Retry the request
```

## Monitoring usage

Track your request volume and credit consumption in the [API Console](https://console.andiai.com). Per-key usage data helps you identify which applications or environments are consuming the most requests.
