features/query-operators.mdx, before:

---
title: Query operators
description: Use in-query operators to refine search results directly in the query string.
---

Query operators let you control search behavior directly in the `q` parameter. They work when `parseOperators` is enabled (the default).

## Site operators

Restrict or exclude results from specific domains:

| Operator | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| `site:` | Results only from this domain | `site:github.com python libraries` |
| `-site:` | Exclude results from this domain | `machine learning -site:wikipedia.org` |

```bash
curl "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search?q=site:github.com+python+libraries" \
  -H "x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY"
```

## Term operators

Require or exclude specific terms:

| Operator | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| `+term` | Term must appear in results | `+python web framework` |
| `-term` | Term must not appear in results | `apple -fruit` |

## Content operators

Filter by where terms appear:

| Operator | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| `filetype:` | Filter by file extension | `filetype:pdf machine learning` |
| `intitle:` | Term must be in the page title | `intitle:tutorial react hooks` |
| `inurl:` | Term must be in the URL | `inurl:api documentation` |
| `intext:` | Term must be in the body text | `intext:benchmarks LLM performance` |

```bash
curl "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search?q=filetype:pdf+machine+learning+survey" \
  -H "x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY"
```

## Date operators

Filter results by publication date:

| Operator | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| `after:` | Results published after this date | `after:2025-01-01 AI news` |
| `before:` | Results published before this date | `before:2024-06-01 product launch` |

Dates use `YYYY-MM-DD` format.

## Logical operators

| Operator | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| `OR` | Match either term | `python OR javascript web framework` |
| `AROUND(X)` | Terms within X words of each other | `climate AROUND(3) change` |

## Ranges and wildcards

| Operator | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| `..` | Numeric range | `best laptops $500..$1000` |
| `*` | Wildcard (matches any word) | `how to * in python` |

## Combining operators

Operators can be combined in a single query:

```bash
curl "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search?q=site:github.com+filetype:md+intitle:readme+machine+learning+after:2025-01-01" \
  -H "x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY"
```

This searches GitHub for markdown README files about machine learning published after January 2025.

## Disabling operator parsing

If your query contains text that looks like an operator but shouldn't be treated as one, set `parseOperators=false`:

```bash
curl "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search?q=how+to+use+site:+prefix+in+DNS&parseOperators=false" \
  -H "x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY"
```

When disabled, the entire query is treated as literal text.

Commit message:

Enhance API documentation with new features and clarifications
- Updated filtering.mdx to include additional date range options: `24h`, `7d`, `30d`, `90d`, `1y`.
- Revised query-operators.mdx to add aliases for `filetype:` and `intext:` operators, and introduced a new `lang:` operator for language filtering.
- Expanded query-parameters.mdx to support multi-query searches and clarified intent values with examples.
- Modified response-format.mdx to reflect changes in response structure, including new fields and types.
- Adjusted quickstart.mdx examples to use updated response fields (`link` instead of `url`).
- Improved error-handling.mdx to provide clearer error response formats and status codes.
- Clarified rate-limits.mdx to specify that limits are configured per API key and updated handling of `429` responses.
- Enhanced deep-search.mdx and fast-search.mdx examples to align with new response structures and metrics.
- Added CONTRIBUTING.md to guide users on how to contribute to the documentation.

features/query-operators.mdx, after:

---
title: Query operators
description: Use in-query operators to refine search results directly in the query string.
---

Query operators let you control search behavior directly in the `q` parameter. They work when `parseOperators` is enabled (the default).

## Site operators

Restrict or exclude results from specific domains:

| Operator | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| `site:` | Results only from this domain | `site:github.com python libraries` |
| `-site:` | Exclude results from this domain | `machine learning -site:wikipedia.org` |

```bash
curl "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search?q=site:github.com+python+libraries" \
  -H "x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY"
```

## Term operators

Require or exclude specific terms:

| Operator | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| `+term` | Term must appear in results | `+python web framework` |
| `-term` | Term must not appear in results | `apple -fruit` |

## Content operators

Filter by where terms appear:

| Operator | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| `filetype:` | Filter by file extension (alias: `ext:`) | `filetype:pdf machine learning` |
| `intitle:` | Term must be in the page title | `intitle:tutorial react hooks` |
| `inurl:` | Term must be in the URL | `inurl:api documentation` |
| `intext:` | Term must be in the body text (alias: `inbody:`) | `intext:benchmarks LLM performance` |

```bash
curl "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search?q=filetype:pdf+machine+learning+survey" \
  -H "x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY"
```

## Date operators

Filter results by publication date:

| Operator | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| `after:` | Results published after this date | `after:2025-01-01 AI news` |
| `before:` | Results published before this date | `before:2024-06-01 product launch` |

Dates use `YYYY-MM-DD` format.

## Language operator

Filter results by language:

| Operator | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| `lang:` | Results in this language (alias: `language:`) | `lang:es inteligencia artificial` |

Uses ISO 639-1 two-letter language codes.

## Combining operators

Operators can be combined in a single query:

```bash
curl "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search?q=site:github.com+filetype:md+intitle:readme+machine+learning+after:2025-01-01" \
  -H "x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY"
```

This searches GitHub for markdown README files about machine learning published after January 2025.

## Disabling operator parsing

If your query contains text that looks like an operator but shouldn't be treated as one, set `parseOperators=false`:

```bash
curl "https://search-api.andisearch.com/api/v1/search?q=how+to+use+site:+prefix+in+DNS&parseOperators=false" \
  -H "x-api-key: YOUR_API_KEY"
```

When disabled, the entire query is treated as literal text.
