features/response-format.mdx, before:

---
title: Response format
description: Structure of the Andi Search API response, including result types and instant answers.
---

All responses are JSON objects. The `format=context` option returns markdown text instead — see [query parameters](/features/query-parameters) for details.

## Top-level fields

| Field | Type | Always present | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `results_type` | string | Yes | Category of results (e.g., `search`, `news`, `images`) |
| `answer` | string | Yes | Generated answer for the query (may be empty) |
| `type` | string | Yes | Same as `results_type` |
| `title` | string | Yes | Title summarizing the search results |
| `results` | array | Yes | Search results |
| `metrics` | object | Yes | Search performance metrics |
| `correctedQuery` | string | No | Spell-corrected query (deep search only, when a correction is made) |
| `related_searches` | array | No | Related search suggestions |
| `topics` | array | No | Related topics |

### Type-specific arrays

Depending on the query intent, the response may include additional arrays alongside `results`:

| Field | Present when |
|---|---|
| `videos` | Video intent queries |
| `images` | Image intent queries |
| `news` | News intent queries |
| `places` | Location/business queries |
| `profiles` | People-related queries |
| `socials` | Social media queries |
| `academics` | Scholarly queries |

## Search results

Each result in the `results` array has this structure:

| Field | Type | Always present | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `title` | string | Yes | Page title |
| `link` | string | Yes | Page URL |
| `desc` | string | Yes | Page description or summary |
| `source` | string | Yes | Domain name |
| `type` | string | Yes | Result type (see [result types](#result-types)) |
| `date` | string | No | Publication date |
| `image` | string | No | Preview image URL |
| `snippet` | string | No | Query-relevant text excerpt (distinct from `desc`) |
| `answer` | string | No | Inline answer for instant answer results |
| `extract` | string | No | Longer text extract (when `extracts=true`) |
| `contentType` | string | No | Content type (when `metadata=full`) |
| `reader` | object | No | Extracted page content (when `metadata=full`) |

## Result types

The `type` field indicates the kind of result:

| Type | Description |
|---|---|
| `website` | Standard web page |
| `news` | News article |
| `video` | Video content |
| `image` | Image content |
| `place` | Business or place |
| `profile` | Person or entity profile |
| `social` | Social media content |
| `academic` | Scholarly or research content |
| `calculation` | Math computation result |
| `weather` | Weather data |
| `computation` | Computed answer |
| `instant answer` | Direct answer to a factual query |

## Instant answers

Some queries trigger instant answers alongside regular results.

### Weather

Queries about weather return a `weather` object:

```json
{
  "results_type": "weather",
  "answer": "",
  "type": "weather",
  "title": "Weather in San Francisco",
  "results": [],
  "weather": {
    "location": {
      "name": "San Francisco",
      "country": "US",
      "coordinates": {
        "latitude": 37.7749,
        "longitude": -122.4194
      }
    },
    "temperature": 62,
    "feelsLike": 59,
    "units": "imperial",
    "description": "Partly Cloudy",
    "humidity": 72,
    "windSpeed": 12,
    "windDirection": 270,
    "pressure": 1013,
    "icon": "partly-cloudy",
    "cloudiness": 40,
    "visibility": 10000,
    "timestamp": "2025-03-15T14:00:00Z"
  },
  "metrics": {
    "query": "weather san francisco",
    "intent": "WeatherIntent",
    "timestamp": "2025-03-15T14:00:01Z",
    "duration": 850,
    "queries_executed": 1,
    "api_requests_count": 2,
    "results_returned": 0,
    "total_results_found": 0
  }
}
```

Use the `units` parameter to get results in `metric` or `imperial`. The default is auto-detected from the `country` parameter.

### Calculation

Mathematical queries return a `calculation` object:

```json
{
  "results_type": "computation",
  "answer": "",
  "type": "computation",
  "title": "150 * 1.08",
  "results": [],
  "calculation": {
    "expression": "150 * 1.08",
    "result": "162"
  },
  "metrics": { ... }
}
```

### Images

Image queries return an `images` array:

```json
{
  "results_type": "images",
  "answer": "",
  "type": "images",
  "title": "Mountain landscape images",
  "results": [],
  "images": [
    {
      "title": "Mountain landscape",
      "link": "https://example.com/photo",
      "image": "https://example.com/photo.jpg",
      "source": "example.com",
      "type": "image",
      "t": "https://example.com/photo_thumb.jpg",
      "w": "1920",
      "h": "1080"
    }
  ],
  "metrics": { ... }
}
```

Image results use abbreviated field names for dimensions: `t` (thumbnail URL), `w` (width as string), `h` (height as string).

## Search intents

The `results_type` and `type` fields reflect what kind of search was performed. You can force an intent with the `intent` parameter, or let the API auto-detect it.

Common intent aliases:

| Alias | Intent | Extra fields |
|---|---|---|
| `search` | General web search | — |
| `news` | News articles | `news` |
| `video` | Video content | `videos` |
| `images` | Image search | `images` |
| `weather` | Weather queries | `weather` |
| `calculate` | Math expressions | `calculation` |
| `wiki` | Wikipedia/knowledge | — |
| `code` | Programming queries | — |
| `recipe` | Recipe search | — |
| `place` | Business search | `places` |
| `time` | Time queries | — |

See [query parameters](/features/query-parameters#intent-values) for the full list of intent aliases.

## Metrics

The response always includes a `metrics` object with search performance data:

```json
{
  "results": [...],
  "metrics": {
    "query": "machine learning",
    "intent": "FallbackSearchIntent",
    "timestamp": "2025-03-15T14:00:01Z",
    "duration": 234,
    "queries_executed": 1,
    "api_requests_count": 3,
    "results_returned": 10,
    "total_results_found": 42
  }
}
```

| Field | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `query` | string | The query as processed |
| `intent` | string | Detected or forced search intent |
| `timestamp` | string | Timestamp of the request |
| `duration` | number | Total request time in milliseconds |
| `queries_executed` | integer | Number of queries executed |
| `api_requests_count` | integer | Number of API requests made |
| `results_returned` | integer | Results returned in this response |
| `total_results_found` | integer | Total results found across sources |
| `cached` | boolean | Whether response was from cache (only present on cache hits) |

Commit message:

feat: rename extract to extracts array and update domain filtering tests
**Changes:**
- Updated OpenAPI schema to change `extract` (string) to `extracts` (array of strings)
- Modified response documentation to reflect the array type for text extracts
- Updated domain filter tests to validate against `.link` instead of `.source` field for domain matching
- Fixed API_BASE configuration timing in test setup to load after .env
- Clarified that `.source` represents publisher name, not domain

features/response-format.mdx, after:

---
title: Response format
description: Structure of the Andi Search API response, including result types and instant answers.
---

All responses are JSON objects. The `format=context` option returns markdown text instead — see [query parameters](/features/query-parameters) for details.

## Top-level fields

| Field | Type | Always present | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `results_type` | string | Yes | Category of results (e.g., `search`, `news`, `images`) |
| `answer` | string | Yes | Generated answer for the query (may be empty) |
| `type` | string | Yes | Same as `results_type` |
| `title` | string | Yes | Title summarizing the search results |
| `results` | array | Yes | Search results |
| `metrics` | object | Yes | Search performance metrics |
| `correctedQuery` | string | No | Spell-corrected query (deep search only, when a correction is made) |
| `related_searches` | array | No | Related search suggestions |
| `topics` | array | No | Related topics |

### Type-specific arrays

Depending on the query intent, the response may include additional arrays alongside `results`:

| Field | Present when |
|---|---|
| `videos` | Video intent queries |
| `images` | Image intent queries |
| `news` | News intent queries |
| `places` | Location/business queries |
| `profiles` | People-related queries |
| `socials` | Social media queries |
| `academics` | Scholarly queries |

## Search results

Each result in the `results` array has this structure:

| Field | Type | Always present | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `title` | string | Yes | Page title |
| `link` | string | Yes | Page URL |
| `desc` | string | Yes | Page description or summary |
| `source` | string | Yes | Domain name |
| `type` | string | Yes | Result type (see [result types](#result-types)) |
| `date` | string | No | Publication date |
| `image` | string | No | Preview image URL |
| `snippet` | string | No | Query-relevant text excerpt (distinct from `desc`) |
| `answer` | string | No | Inline answer for instant answer results |
| `extracts` | array | No | Text extracts from the page, when available (when `extracts=true`) |
| `contentType` | string | No | Content type (when `metadata=full`) |
| `reader` | object | No | Extracted page content (when `metadata=full`) |

## Result types

The `type` field indicates the kind of result:

| Type | Description |
|---|---|
| `website` | Standard web page |
| `news` | News article |
| `video` | Video content |
| `image` | Image content |
| `place` | Business or place |
| `profile` | Person or entity profile |
| `social` | Social media content |
| `academic` | Scholarly or research content |
| `calculation` | Math computation result |
| `weather` | Weather data |
| `computation` | Computed answer |
| `instant answer` | Direct answer to a factual query |

## Instant answers

Some queries trigger instant answers alongside regular results.

### Weather

Queries about weather return a `weather` object:

```json
{
  "results_type": "weather",
  "answer": "",
  "type": "weather",
  "title": "Weather in San Francisco",
  "results": [],
  "weather": {
    "location": {
      "name": "San Francisco",
      "country": "US",
      "coordinates": {
        "latitude": 37.7749,
        "longitude": -122.4194
      }
    },
    "temperature": 62,
    "feelsLike": 59,
    "units": "imperial",
    "description": "Partly Cloudy",
    "humidity": 72,
    "windSpeed": 12,
    "windDirection": 270,
    "pressure": 1013,
    "icon": "partly-cloudy",
    "cloudiness": 40,
    "visibility": 10000,
    "timestamp": "2025-03-15T14:00:00Z"
  },
  "metrics": {
    "query": "weather san francisco",
    "intent": "WeatherIntent",
    "timestamp": "2025-03-15T14:00:01Z",
    "duration": 850,
    "queries_executed": 1,
    "api_requests_count": 2,
    "results_returned": 0,
    "total_results_found": 0
  }
}
```

Use the `units` parameter to get results in `metric` or `imperial`. The default is auto-detected from the `country` parameter.

### Calculation

Mathematical queries return a `calculation` object:

```json
{
  "results_type": "computation",
  "answer": "",
  "type": "computation",
  "title": "150 * 1.08",
  "results": [],
  "calculation": {
    "expression": "150 * 1.08",
    "result": "162"
  },
  "metrics": { ... }
}
```

### Images

Image queries return an `images` array:

```json
{
  "results_type": "images",
  "answer": "",
  "type": "images",
  "title": "Mountain landscape images",
  "results": [],
  "images": [
    {
      "title": "Mountain landscape",
      "link": "https://example.com/photo",
      "image": "https://example.com/photo.jpg",
      "source": "example.com",
      "type": "image",
      "t": "https://example.com/photo_thumb.jpg",
      "w": "1920",
      "h": "1080"
    }
  ],
  "metrics": { ... }
}
```

Image results use abbreviated field names for dimensions: `t` (thumbnail URL), `w` (width as string), `h` (height as string).

## Search intents

The `results_type` and `type` fields reflect what kind of search was performed. You can force an intent with the `intent` parameter, or let the API auto-detect it.

Common intent aliases:

| Alias | Intent | Extra fields |
|---|---|---|
| `search` | General web search | — |
| `news` | News articles | `news` |
| `video` | Video content | `videos` |
| `images` | Image search | `images` |
| `weather` | Weather queries | `weather` |
| `calculate` | Math expressions | `calculation` |
| `wiki` | Wikipedia/knowledge | — |
| `code` | Programming queries | — |
| `recipe` | Recipe search | — |
| `place` | Business search | `places` |
| `time` | Time queries | — |

See [query parameters](/features/query-parameters#intent-values) for the full list of intent aliases.

## Metrics

The response always includes a `metrics` object with search performance data:

```json
{
  "results": [...],
  "metrics": {
    "query": "machine learning",
    "intent": "FallbackSearchIntent",
    "timestamp": "2025-03-15T14:00:01Z",
    "duration": 234,
    "queries_executed": 1,
    "api_requests_count": 3,
    "results_returned": 10,
    "total_results_found": 42
  }
}
```

| Field | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| `query` | string | The query as processed |
| `intent` | string | Detected or forced search intent |
| `timestamp` | string | Timestamp of the request |
| `duration` | number | Total request time in milliseconds |
| `queries_executed` | integer | Number of queries executed |
| `api_requests_count` | integer | Number of API requests made |
| `results_returned` | integer | Results returned in this response |
| `total_results_found` | integer | Total results found across sources |
| `cached` | boolean | Whether response was from cache (only present on cache hits) |
